Let's put together this user interface component here that allows us to have this very nice elevated
card per se.
Let's see, how can we do that?
So now we have created a surface which is this entire canvas here.
Let's go ahead and put together that card entity.
Well, as the name implies, there is in fact a UI function user interface function that we can call
to create just that.
And it's called card.
There we go.
So you start typing card again.
You can see here it is indeed a function that is a composable function, which means comes from the
compose library jetpack compose library.
So all of this is already done for us, so we're just invoking lost functions and get the results.
How neat is that, right?
OK, so now we're going to see enter to get that.
So we have the card on the beta of the card here.
If you hover over, this is another amazing thing.
There's a lot of information that you'll will see here, and most of it make no sense to you, and that's
fine again.
We're just getting something done here.
OK.
So just follow along and we'll have plenty of time to go over all these things.
All these details.
OK.
No problem.
All right.
So it's a composable function.
If you have all we can see and you can see here is this function card and has this composable at composable
there to say this is indeed a composable function.
And then we have this modifier here and we'll find again, it allows us to modify the contents of that
function and we can perhaps shape to say what kind of shape we want, background color of this shape
of content, color and all sorts of things.
Wonderful.
So the first thing I want to do, of course, is put a modifier I can hit enter when I say modifier
can modify my diet with because I want to control the width of this card.
OK.
So if say with like that, you see a few options when the first option, which is we're going to be
able to pass a with value.
OK, so in this case, I just want 200 and now we need to pass the actual unit size.
OK, so I'm going to say that dpi like this now.
What is this deep deep is Android unit measure.
So this is how Android measures the pixels that we are needing.
Height, width and all sorts of things.
Just think of it as just a measuring system or measuring unit with Android has a lot with it, but that's
what we are going to go with for that.
All right.
But we have a problem here because that says that we need to actually import the library, this unit
to the library.
So what we can do here, I can say alt or option on the window in the air like this.
And while it's important you can see for the wider top here, you know imports, this may be closed
for you.
You can just actually click to the left there.
You can see this is what was imported, so we're able to use that library.
All right.
So we have that done.
So now the width of this card, it's going to be 200 and we can pile on onto our modifier.
So we hit enter.
I say again.
I can say I want in this case, at the height, the height, we're going to put 390 dpi again right
there again.
If you want to continue to add more modifiers, more things to customize our card, you can.
But we're going to stop here for now.
Anything we want to do is we want to give this card some sort of elevation.
What that means is that if you look at our card here, you notice that we have some sort of shadow around,
which makes it look like it's elevated from the main background canvas or, in this case, surface.
So we can actually set that up and say how elevated we want.
So meaning how much of this shadow we want wanted to show so it pops from the canvas?
OK, so we can do that by, say, comma hit enter.
Notice this is not part of the modifier anymore.
This is a different property.
And so was the elevation.
Start typing.
You can see there it is, says here.
Right away it's elevation and we must pass a DPI unit for it.
So I want to say I want about, let's say for that dpi.
There we go.
Now let's go ahead and refresh.
See if we're going to see anything.
OK, so it's done refreshed, but we see nothing.
In fact, if I keep going here, let's go and see.
It doesn't look like there's anything, but there is something.
It's just that there's more to do to make it look like this, right?
So there are other properties we need to pass.
What are those other properties?
Well, the card is there.
We understand that we're not seeing it because it's white on white and there is really we haven't delineated
everything.
So what do we need to do next is to pass in a shape.
Now, if you have a over cardigan, cardigan can see there is, of course, a type or parameter or in
this case, a property we can past called shape.
We're going to use that.
Now, what are we going to do is after elevation or even before elevation, really?
And when I say shape, this is equal.
And for us here, for a shape, what do we need to do?
I'm going to say rounded.
You can actually start tightening rounded corners, shapes this water corner shape.
As the name imply, it's going to create rounded corners of the entire shape, all of the edges.
But we need to pass something else.
We need to pass it.
There's a different thing which can pass.
We can I.
Really said I would say, OK, I want to top start to be 10 dpi four instead, which means the corner
is not going to be as sharp, right?
So desired.
No, the sharper the corner is.
Or in this case, the round the corner is, I should say, but I want make sure that all the corners
are actually same roundness, if you will.
So I could just pass he or say corner this hit enter, I'm going to pass a corner type you will and
pass this size there to the size again is going to be DPI.
So I'm going to say I want to be about 15 dpi like this.
So now what I'm saying again, is that I'm going to put a sheep onto this card so that this card has
a rounded corners shape and a passing the size of the radius per say of each corner.
Let's see if we're going to be able to see something, and you can see probably let's make this really,
really, really.
You can see now there is indeed a little corner out there, right?
It's rounded.
It's not too much.
But is there one thing I can do to make this more visible?
It's I'm going to change the color of on a card.
That way it's more visible.
In fact, again, if you have over a card, you can see we have that property of background color.
So right after shape, I can come up here and say.
Background color, such forget the color.
And then here I'm going to say color, evoke this color function, say Dot.
And I just want to say green for now.
This will just let us be able to actually see the difference between the background as in the surface,
right in the background of the card, so it can see that this is actually working.
The shape is rounded, corners shape refresh again.
And now you can see the difference.
There it is.
I know this is a very aggressive color, but bear with me here.
You can see.
There it is.
We do have those corners there.
In fact, you look at the bottom to there go.
All right, that's good.
That's really good.
And anything we can do, we can actually add a padding around the entire card.
So instead of our modifier here, I'm going to come up and say, dot padding.
This padding is going to have a padding around the entire card.
So I'm going to say 12 dpi, such as go ahead and rebuild.
Is this a normal size since we have seen that this is actually working?
OK, there we go.
Now you can see it's much better and you can see now that because we added that padding around this
card here, right?
That's what we are building.
We have 12.
So the bigger this number, of course, the more padding, which means the more difference we will see
between the background and our card case, the more padding that means you padding around it, making
it a little bit smaller.
OK, so this is working.
This is really good.
In fact, now I can get rid of this hideous color and let's just put something like white, even though
we know that white is is the color that is given automatically as default.
But I just want to show you other alternatives here.
OK, so there we go, and I know it's really hard to see, but there you go.
It's not too bad.
You can see now there it is.
It's it's showing.
So now we have the actual card on top of our surface.
So it's starting to look a lot like this, least the background.
All right.
Very good.
So while we're here, let's go ahead and see if we can run this because we have something.
Let's run this onto our device.
There are two things you can do.
We can go ahead, of course, and run this because this still is an application Android application
and run this directly from here.
Or we can just go ahead and run it from here.
It says it will deploy preview.
I can just right click there.
It should go ahead and start realizing an emulator.
It says no emulators are currently running and we can change that rule quick.
OK, it's connecting.
Actually should have just waited a little bit until it started connecting.
And voila!
You can see we have now and I just let someone down.
I have the same later and can see it looks really good.
We have that nice card rounded corner card showing there.
OK, great.
So the moral of the story here is, I hope you can see how easy really things are now with Compose to
create these amazing, good looking user interfaces.
We didn't have to do a lot of work.
We just passed in a modifier and said, for instance, we want this surface to take up the entire width
of the screen.
We want to take up the entire height of a screen and then inside of this surface, this canvas, this
back background there another white one, one to put a card in inside of this card.
We want to also make this card a little bit smaller and width 200 dpi height 390.
And then we're going to create a padding around it, a card.
So padding around this whole card here, right of twelve dpi.
And then we said the shape should be, of course, have it, corner size of 15 DB.
So the higher this number, the rounder, this will be these corners.
They're right and say with background color.
In fact, we can just get rid of that because the default is always white and it'll say elevations are
going to be four dpi, which means going to be visible.
It's going to be higher on top of our surface that we created over again.
So as we go through this, please go ahead and type as AMD.
And break things tried to change, for instance, the padding and see what happens or add, make this
larger or perhaps change the color as it showed you, or change the corner size.
Deep inside there and see what will transpire here or inside of our preview.
So that's a really good exercise I like to do.
And let's keep going.